




Baltimore Afro-American - Wikipedia























 






Baltimore Afro-American

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


The Afro-American


The Afro Building on North Charles Street



Type
Weekly


Format
Broadsheet (full page)


Publisher
John J. Oliver Jr.


Editor
Kamau High, Managing Editor [1]


Founded
1892


Headquarters
2519 North Charles Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21218
USA


Website
www.afro.com


The Baltimore Afro-American, commonly known as The Afro, is a weekly newspaper published in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. It is the flagship newspaper of the Afro-American chain and the longest-running African-American family-owned newspaper in the United States, established in 1892 by John H. Murphy, Sr.[2][3]



Contents


1 History
2 University Collaborative archival project
3 See also
4 References
5 Further reading
6 External links



History[edit]




Nameplate of The Afro-American Ledger, September 6, 1913


The newspaper was founded in 1892 by John H. Murphy, Sr., who was born into slavery and served in the Civil War in the United States Colored Troops, reaching the rank of sergeant (NCO). He worked a variety of jobs after the war. Active with the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Baltimore, a denomination founded in the early 19th century in Philadelphia as the first independent black religion in the United States, Murphy merged his church publication, The Sunday School Helper, with two other church publications, The Ledger and The Afro-American. With The Afro-American, Murphy promoted unity in the black community of Baltimore, as well as combating racial discrimination in the city and working for children's education. "He crusaded for racial justice while exposing racism in education, jobs, housing, and public accommodations. In 1913, he was elected president of the National Negro Press Association."[4]
The publication began to grow to reach more cities and to rise in national prominence after his son Carl J. Murphy took control in 1922, serving as its editor for 45 years. He expanded the paper to have nine national editions, with papers published in 13 major cities. At its peak, the paper published two weekly editions in Baltimore and regional weekly editions in cities including Washington, DC; Philadelphia; Richmond, Virginia; and Newark, New Jersey, the latter a destination northern city for many blacks from the rural South during the Great Migration to the North in the first half of the 20th century. In the early 21st century, the Afro-American has two city editions: one in Baltimore, and the other for Washington, D.C.[5]
Both John H. Murphy, Sr. and his son Carl J. Murphy have been posthumously inducted into the MDDC Press Association's Hall of Fame in recognition of their contributions to journalism and publishing, in 2008 [4] and 2015,[6] respectively.
University Collaborative archival project[edit]
In November 2007 five students were selected from Baltimore institutions, Johns Hopkins University, Morgan State University and Goucher College, to begin work under an Andrew W. Mellon Foundation grant "to uncover and describe the content" of the newspaper's archives, held at its headquarters. These included manuscripts, articles, photographs, and clippings that date to the founding of the paper. "The objectives of the project are to identify important unprocessed collections at the newspaper, inventory and organize the collection, and ultimately create an online database for searching the material."[5]

"In order to preserve the newspaper's archival holdings and make them accessible to the masses, the Center for Africana Studies and the Sheridan Libraries' Center for Educational Resources [at JHU] have embarked on the Diaspora Pathways Archival Access Project, a student internship program funded by a three-year grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. The program is one facet of the Center for Africana Studies' larger Diaspora Pathways Initiative, which also includes oral history projects and academic courses."[5]

See also[edit]

Media in Baltimore
List of newspapers in Maryland

References[edit]


^ . Nov. 28, 2015 Issue of Afro-American Newspaper
^ "Baltimore City Newspapers". Johns Hopkins University Library. Archived from the original on 2008-02-15. Retrieved 2008-04-03. 
^ Farrar, Hayward (1998-05-30). The Baltimore Afro-American: 1892-1950. Greenwood Press. p. 240. ISBN 0-313-30517-X. 
^ a b "John Henry Murphy, Sr., MDDC Hall of Fame Class of 2008: Afro-American's John H. Murphy, Sr.", MDDC Press Association, accessed 23 March 2016
^ a b c Greg Rienzi (17 March 2008). "Mining the 'Afro-American' Archives". The Gazette. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University.  |access-date= requires |url= (help)[dead link]
^ Video Narrator, Ben Phillips, grandson: "Carl J. Murphy, Publisher, The AFRO-American Newspapers", 2015 inductee, MDDC Hall of Fame, accessed 23 March 2016


Further reading[edit]

Farrar, Hayward (May 21, 1998). The Baltimore Afro-American: 1892-1950 (Contributions in Afro-American and African Studies: Contemporary Black Poets) (Hardcover). ISBN 031330517X.  ISBN 978-0313305177.

External links[edit]


Maryland portal
African American portal
Journalism portal



Afro.com
digitized photos from The Afro-American archives
Digitized, searchable issues of The Afro-American Ledger (Jan 5, 1906 - Jun 30, 1917, 286 issues)







v
t
e


Ethnic history of Baltimore



Groups



African Americans
Czechs
French
Germans
Greeks
Hispanics and Latinos
Irish
Italians
Jews
Koreans
Lithuanians
Native Americans
Poles
Russians
Ukrainians





Ethnic enclaves



Chinatown
Corned Beef Row
French Town
Greektown
Koreatown
Little Bohemia
Little Italy
Little Lithuania
Little Poland
Little Ukrainian Village
Otterbein
Spanish Town





Institutions



Baltimore American Indian Center
Baltimore Hebrew University
Bohemian National Cemetery
Christ United Church of Christ
Concordia Hall
Grand Lodge .S.P.S. of Baltimore
Greek Orthodox Cathedral of the Annunciation
Hebrew Orphan Asylum


Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church
Holy Rosary Church
Holy Trinity Russian Orthodox Church
Jewish Museum of Maryland
Lithuanian Hall
National Great Blacks In Wax Museum
National Slavic Museum
Oblate Sisters of Providence
Otterbein Church
Our Lady of Pompeii Church
Polish Home Hall


Reginald F. Lewis Museum of Maryland African American History & Culture
Royal Theatre
St. Alphonsus Church
St. Casimir Church
St. Elizabeth of Hungary
St. Francis Xavier Church
St. Leo's Church
St. Michael the Archangel Ukrainian Catholic Church
St. Peter the Apostle Church


Sts. Peter & Paul Ukrainian Catholic Church
St. Vincent de Paul Church
St. Wenceslaus in Baltimore
Transfiguration of our Lord Russian Orthodox Church
Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association Building
Zion Lutheran Church





Events



Baltimore riot of 1968
2015 Baltimore protests





Media



Ethnic press in Baltimore (Baltimore Afro-American
Baltimore Jewish Times
Baltimore Wecker
Latin Opinion
Telegraf
Where What When)












v
t
e


African-American press



Newspapers




Active




Northeast



Bay State Banner
Our Time Press
New Pittsburgh Courier
New York Amsterdam News
Philadelphia Tribune





Southeast



African-American News and Issues
Atlanta Daily World
Atlanta Inquirer
Atlanta Voice
Baltimore Afro-American
Black Chronicle
The Carolina Times
The Charlotte Post
Chattanooga News Chronicle
Florida Sentinel Bulletin
The Florida Star
Houston Defender
Houston Forward Times
Jackson Advocate
The Louisiana Weekly
Louisville Defender
The Miami Times
New Journal and Guide
The New Orleans Tribune
Northern Kentucky Herald
Richmond Free Press
Roanoke Tribune
Savannah Tribune
Tennessee Tribune
Tri-State Defender
The Village Beat
The Washington Afro American
The Washington Informer
The Washington Sun
Winston-Salem Chronicle





Midwest



The Call
Call and Post
The Chicago Defender
The Cincinnati Herald
Dayton Defender
Frost Illustrated
Gary Crusader
Indianapolis Recorder
Iowa Bystander
Michigan Chronicle
The Michigan Citizen
The Michigan FrontPage
Omaha Star
The St. Louis American
St. Louis Argus
St. Louis Sentinel





West



The Facts
Los Angeles Sentinel
The Oakland Post
Richmond Post
The Sacramento Observer
San Francisco Bay View
The Skanner
Seattle Medium





National



The Final Call








Defunct



Boston Guardian
California Eagle
Chicago Bee
The City Sun
The Cleveland Gazette
The Colored American (New York City)
The Colored American (Washington, D.C.)
Dallas Express
The Equator
Freedom's Journal
Indianapolis Freeman
Ink newspaper
The Liberator
Louisville Leader
Muhammad Speaks
Negro World
The Negro Star
New York Age
The North Star
The Philadelphia Independent
Pittsburgh Courier
The Rights of All
The Washington Bee
Western Appeal
The Winter Park Advocate
The Woman's Era








Magazines



Black Enterprise
Black Issues Book Review
BLK
Clutch
The Colored American Magazine
The Crisis
Ebony
Emerge
Essence
The Fader
Fire!!
The Grio
The Horizon
Jet
King
Negro Digest
Our Women and Children
Rags N Riches Magazine
Right On!
The Root
Sister 2 Sister
Tint
Transition Magazine
Visions Metro Weekly





Organizations



National Association of Black Journalists
National Newspaper Publishers Association





Corporations



Perry Publishing and Broadcasting
Real Times






See also: National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Baltimore_Afro-American&oldid=790521832"					
Categories: African-American history in BaltimoreAfrican-American newspapersNewspapers published in BaltimorePublications established in 18921892 establishments in MarylandHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from May 2016 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Franais 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 14 July 2017, at 08:15.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 






