




UNCF - Wikipedia























 






UNCF

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from United Negro College Fund)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Not to be confused with UNICEF.

United Negro College Fund




Founded
April 25, 1944


Founder
Frederick D. Patterson


Type
Educational


Location



1805 7th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20001





Coordinates
385451N 770117W / 38.9143N 77.0214W / 38.9143; -77.0214Coordinates: 385451N 770117W / 38.9143N 77.0214W / 38.9143; -77.0214



Area served

United States



Key people

Michael Lomax (President)


Slogan
A mind is a terrible thing to waste


Website
www.uncf.org




African-American topics







History (timeline)





Atlantic slave trade
African-American history
Slavery in the United States
History in agriculture
African-American business history
African-American military history
Jim Crow laws
Great Migration
Redlining
Second Great Migration
Black Power movement
PostCivil Rights era
New Great Migration




Civil Rights Movement




18651896
18961954
19541968











Culture



Studies
Art
Business history
Black conductors
Black mecca
Black schools
Black colleges and universities
Juneteenth
Kwanzaa
Literature
Museums
Music
Neighborhoods









Religion



Black church
Black theology
Nation of Islam









Political movements



Afrocentrism
Black Power
Anarchism
Capitalism
Conservatism
Leftism
Nationalism
Populism
Black Panther Party
Garveyism
Pan-Africanism









Civic / economic groups


Rights organizations

National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)


Southern Christian
Leadership Conference (SCLC)

Congress of Racial Equality (CORE)

Student Nonviolent
Coordinating Committee (SNCC)

National Urban League (NUL)

Association for the Study of African
American Life and History (ASALH)

United Negro College Fund (UNCF)
Thurgood Marshall College Fund

National Black Chamber
of Commerce (NBCC)

National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)
National Council of Negro Women (NCNW)
TransAfrica Forum








Sports





Negro league baseball




Athletic associations and conferences




Central (CIAA)
Southern (SIAC)
Mid-Eastern (MEAC)
Southwestern (SWAC)











Ethnic subdivisions



Americo-Liberians
Black Indians
Black Southerners
Gullah
Igbo









Languages



English
American English
African American Vernacular English
Gullah
Louisiana Creole French









Diaspora



Nova Scotia
Liberia

Sierra Leone
France









Lists



African Americans

African-American firsts

First mayors
US state firsts



Landmark African-American legislation
African American-related topics
Topics related to Black and African people









Category: African-American society
 African American portal







v
t
e





UNCF, the United Negro College Fund, also known as the United Fund, is an American philanthropic organization that funds scholarships for black students and general scholarship funds for 37 private historically black colleges and universities. UNCF was incorporated on April 25, 1944 by Frederick D. Patterson (then president of what is now Tuskegee University), Mary McLeod Bethune, and others. UNCF is headquartered at 1805 7th Street, NW in Washington, D.C.[1] In 2005, UNCF supported approximately 65,000 students at over 900 colleges and universities with approximately $113 million in grants and scholarships. About 60% of these students are the first in their families to attend college, and 62% have annual family incomes of less than $25,000. UNCF also administers over 450 named scholarships.
UNCF's president and chief executive officer is Michael Lomax. Past presidents of the UNCF included William H. Gray and Vernon Jordan.



Contents


1 Scholarships
2 History
3 Fundraising and the Lou Rawls Parade of Stars
4 The UNCF motto
5 UNCF Member Institutions

5.1 Alabama
5.2 Arkansas
5.3 Florida
5.4 Georgia
5.5 Louisiana
5.6 Mississippi
5.7 North Carolina
5.8 Ohio
5.9 South Carolina
5.10 Tennessee
5.11 Texas
5.12 Virginia


6 References
7 External links



Scholarships[edit]
Though founded to address funding inequities in education resources for African Americans, UNCF-administered scholarships are open to all ethnicities; the great majority of recipients are still African-American. It provides scholarships to students attending its member colleges as well as to those going elsewhere.[2]
Graduates of UNCF member institutions and scholarships have included many blacks in the fields of business, politics, health care and the arts. Some prominent UNCF alumni include Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., a Nobel Peace Prize recipient and leader in the Civil Rights Movement; Alexis Herman, former U.S. Secretary of Labor; noted movie director Spike Lee; actor Samuel L. Jackson; General Chappie James, the U.S. Air Forces first black four-star general; and Dr. David Satcher, a former U.S. Surgeon General and director of the Centers for Disease Control.[3]
History[edit]
In 1944 William J. Trent, a long time activist for education for blacks, joined with Tuskegee Institute President Frederick D. Patterson and Mary McLeod Bethune to found the UNCF, a nonprofit that united college presidents to raise money collectively through an "appeal to the national conscience". As the first executive director from the organization's start in 1944 until 1964, Trent raised $78 million for historically black colleges so they could become "strong citadels of learning, carriers of the American dream, seedbeds of social evolution and revolution".[4] In 2008, the UNCF shifted from using its full name to using its initials, releasing a new logo with the initials alone and featuring their slogan more prominently.[5][6]
Fundraising and the Lou Rawls Parade of Stars[edit]


Education in the United States




By state and in insular areas
By subject area
History of
Issues: Finance Law Literacy Reform
Levels: Primary Secondary Higher
Organizations




 Education portal
 United States portal





v
t
e









United Negro College Fund headquarters in Washington, D.C.


The UNCF has received charitable donations for its scholarship programs. One of the more high-profile donations made was by then-senator and future U.S. President John F. Kennedy who donated the money from the Pulitzer Prize for his book Profiles in Courage to the Fund. The largest ever single donation was made in 1990 by Walter Annenberg, who donated $50 million to the fund.[7]
Beginning in 1980, singer Lou Rawls began the "Lou Rawls Parade of Stars" telethon to benefit the UNCF. The annual event, now known as "An Evening of Stars", consists of stories of successful African-American students who have graduated or benefited from one of the many historically black colleges and universities and who received support from the UNCF. The telethon featured comedy and musical performances from various artists in support of the UNCF's and Rawls' efforts. The event has raised over $200 million in 27 shows for the fund through 2006.[8]
In January 2004, Rawls was honored by the United Negro College Fund for his more than 25 years of charity work with the organization. Instead of Rawls' hosting and performing, he was given the seat of honor and celebrated by his performing colleagues, including Stevie Wonder, The O'Jays, Gerald Levert, Ashanti, and several others. Before his death in January 2006, Rawls' last performance was a taping for the 2006 telethon that honored Wonder, months before entering the hospital after being diagnosed with cancer earlier in the year.[8]
In addition to the telethon, there are a number of other fundraising activities, including the "Walk for Education" held annually in Los Angeles, California, which includes a five kilometer walk/run. In Houston, Texas, the Cypresswood Golf Club hosts an annual golf tournament in April.[9]
In 2014, Koch Industries Inc. and the Charles Koch Foundation made a $25 million grant to UNCF.[10] In protest of the Kochs, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a major labor union, ended its yearly $50,00060,000 support for UNCF.[11]
The UNCF motto[edit]
In 1972, the UNCF adopted as its motto the maxim "A mind is a terrible thing to waste." This maxim has become one of the most widely recognized slogans in advertising history.[12] The motto was notably mangled in a 1989 address to the organization by then-vice president of the United States Dan Quayle, who stated: "And you take the U.N.C.F. model that what a waste it is to lose one's mind or not to have a mind is being very wasteful. How true that is."[13] The motto, which has been used in numerous award-winning UNCF ad campaigns, was created by Forest Long, of the advertising agency Young & Rubicam, in partnership with the Ad Council.[14]
A lesser-known slogan the UNCF also uses, in reference to its intended beneficiaries, points out about them, "[They're] not asking for a handout, just a hand."[15]
UNCF Member Institutions[edit]
Alabama[edit]

Miles College, Birmingham
Oakwood University, Huntsville
Talladega College, Talladega
Stillman College, Tuscaloosa
Tuskegee University, Tuskegee

Arkansas[edit]

Philander Smith College, Little Rock

Florida[edit]

Bethune-Cookman University, Daytona Beach
Edward Waters College, Jacksonville
Florida Memorial University, Miami Gardens

Georgia[edit]

Clark Atlanta University, Atlanta
Interdenominational Theological Center, Atlanta
Morehouse College, Atlanta
Spelman College, Atlanta
Paine College, Augusta

Louisiana[edit]

Dillard University, New Orleans
Xavier University of Louisiana, New Orleans

Mississippi[edit]

Rust College, Holly Springs
Tougaloo College, Tougaloo

North Carolina[edit]

Johnson C. Smith University, Charlotte
Bennett College, Greensboro
Saint Augustine's College, Raleigh
Shaw University, Raleigh
Livingstone College, Salisbury

Ohio[edit]

Wilberforce University, Wilberforce

South Carolina[edit]

Allen University, Columbia
Benedict College, Columbia
Voorhees College, Denmark
Claflin University, Orangeburg
Morris College, Sumter

Tennessee[edit]

Lane College, Jackson
LeMoyne-Owen College, Memphis
Fisk University, Nashville

Texas[edit]

Huston-Tillotson University, Austin
Jarvis Christian College, Hawkins
Wiley College, Marshall
Texas College, Tyler

Virginia[edit]

Virginia Union University, Richmond

References[edit]



^ "Contact Us". United Negro College Fund. Accessed October 8, 2013.
^ "UNCF Faq". UNCF. 2008-11-07. Retrieved 2013-10-08. 
^ "UNCF". UNCF. 2008-11-07. Retrieved 2013-10-08. 
^ Wharton Alumni Magazine, Spring 2007
^ Quenqua, Douglas (January 17, 2008). "Revising a Name, but Not a Familiar Slogan". The New York Times. 
^ Schmidt, Peter (January 17, 2008). "United Negro College Fund Decides Its Great Tag Line Is a Terrible Thing to Waste". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 
^ B. Davis Schwartz Memorial Library Archived February 11, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
^ a b [1][dead link]
^ "UNCF Events". UNCF. Retrieved 2013-10-08. 
^ Sullivan, Sean (June 6, 2014). "Koch brothers donate $25 million to United Negro College Fund". Washington Post. Retrieved August 26, 2014. 
^ "Union halts support for United Negro College Fund over Koch brothers' grant". New York Post. Associated Press. 2014-07-10. Retrieved 2014-07-11. 
^ [2] Archived September 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Dowd, Maureen. "The Education of Dan Quayle." The New York Times. June 25, 1989.
^ See the UNCF website.
^ Gasman, Marybeth (2007). Envisioning Black Colleges: A History of the United Negro College Fund (page 192). Baltimore, MD: The Johns Hopkins University Press.



External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=UNCF&oldid=807202213"					
Categories: 1944 establishments in Washington, D.C.African-American historyHistorically black universities and colleges in the United StatesIdentity politicsOrganizations based in Washington, D.C.Organizations established in 1944Philanthropic organizations based in the United StatesScholarships in the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2017Pages using deprecated image syntaxCoordinates on Wikidata 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


FranaisNorskSuomi 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 26 October 2017, at 15:19.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 






