




IEEE Computer Society - Wikipedia






















 






IEEE Computer Society

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


IEEE Computer Society




Founded
1946[1]


Type
Professional organization


Focus
Computer and information processing science and technology


Headquarters
Washington, D.C., United States


Origins
Formation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) Subcommittee on Large-Scale Computing



Area served

Worldwide


Method
Publications, conferences, technical councils, industry standards, certification and training



Key people

Roger Fuji (Current President)



Employees

80


Website
www.computer.org


IEEE Computer Society (sometimes abbreviated Computer Society or CS) is a professional society of IEEE. Its purpose and scope is "to advance the theory, practice, and application of computer and information processing science and technology" and the "professional standing of its members."[2] The CS is the largest of 39 technical societies organized under the IEEE Technical Activities Board.[3]
The Computer Society sponsors workshops and conferences, publishes a variety of peer-reviewed literature, operates technical committees, and develops IEEE computing standards.[4] It supports more than 200 chapters worldwide[5] and participates in educational activities at all levels of the profession, including distance learning, accreditation of higher education programs in computer science, and professional certification in software engineering.[3]
The IEEE Computer Society is also a member organization of the Federation of Enterprise Architecture Professional Organizations (a worldwide association of professional organizations which have come together to provide a forum to standardize, professionalize, and otherwise advance the discipline of Enterprise Architecture).



Contents


1 History
2 Main activities

2.1 Education and professional development
2.2 Publications
2.3 Technical conferences and activities
2.4 Technical committees
2.5 Awards


3 See also
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]




IEEE Computer Society headquarters Office in Washington, D.C.


IEEE Computer Society traces its origins to the Subcommittee on Large-Scale Computing, established in 1946 by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE),[6] and to the Professional Group on Electronic Computers (PGEC), established in 1951 by the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE).[7] When the AIEE merged with the IRE in 1963 to form the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), these two committees became the IEEE Computer Group.[8] The group established its own constitution and bylaws in 1971 to become the IEEE Computer Society.[1]
The CS maintains its headquarters in Washington, D.C. and additional offices in California and Japan.[9]
Main activities[edit]




IEEE Computer Society publications office in Los Alamitos, California


The Computer Society maintains volunteer boards in six program areas: education, membership, professional activities, publications, standards, and technical and conference activities. In addition, 12 standing committees administer activities such as the CS elections and its awards programs to recognize professional excellence.[10]
Education and professional development[edit]
The Computer Society participates in ongoing development of college computing curricula, jointly with the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM).[11] Other educational activities include software development certification programs[12] and online access to e-learning courseware and books.[13]
Publications[edit]
The Computer Society is a leading publisher of technical material in computing.[14] Its publications include 13 peer-reviewed technical magazines and 20 scholarly journals called Transactions, as well as conference proceedings, books, and a variety of digital products.[15]
The Computer Society Digital Library (CSDL) provides subscriber access to all CS publications.[16] In 2008, the Computer Society launched Computing Now, a Web portal featuring free access to a rotation of CSDL articles, along with technical news, CS blogs, and multimedia content.[17]
As most publications were delivered digitally in 2014, the Computer Society launched the complementary monthly digest Computing Edge magazine, which consists of curated articles from its magazines.[18]
Technical conferences and activities[edit]




Steve Wozniak relating tales of his television jammer hijinks from college at the first TechIgnite conference


The Computer Society sponsors more than 170 technical conferences each year[19] and coordinates the operation of several technical committees, councils, and task forces.[20]
The CS also maintains 12 standards committees to develop IEEE standards in various areas of computer and software engineering (e.g., the Design Automation Standards Committee and the IEEE 802 LAN/MAN Standards Committee).[21]
In 2010 the CS introduced Special Technical Communities (STCs) as a new way for members to develop communities focusing on selected technical areas.[22] Current topics include broadening participation, cloud computing, education, eGov, haptics, multicore, operating systems, smart grids, social networking, sustainable computing, systems engineering, and wearable and ubiquitous technologies.[23]
Technical committees[edit]
IEEE-CS currently has 26 technical committees and two technical councils.[24] A technical committee (TC) is an international network of professionals with common interests in computer hardware, software, its applications, and interdisciplinary fields within the umbrella of IEEE-CS. A technical council is essentially a very large technical committee, and a task force is an emerging technical committee. A TC serves as the focal point of the various technical activities within a technical discipline which influences the standards development, conferences, publications, and educational activities of IEEE-CS. Following are the current technical committees and councils:

Technical Committee on Business Informatics and Systems (TCBIS)
Technical Committee on Computer Architecture (TCCA)
Technical Committee on Computational LIfe Sciences (TCCLS)
Technical Committee on Computer Communications (TCCC)
Technical Committee on Data Engineering (TCDE)
Technical Committee on Dependable Computing and Fault Tolerance (TCFT)
Technical Committee on Digital Libraries (TCDL)
Technical Committee on Distributed Processing (TCDP)
Technical Committee on Intelligent Informatics (TCII)
Technical Committee on Internet (TCI)
Technical Committee on Learning Technology (TCLT)
Technical Committee on Mathematical Foundations of Computing (TCMF)
Technical Committee on Microprocessors and Microcomputers (TCMM)
Technical Committee on Microprogramming and Microarchitecture (TCuARCH)
Technical Committee on Multimedia Computing (TCMC)
Technical Committee on Multiple-Valued Logic (TCMVL)
Technical Committee on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TCPAMI)
Technical Committee on Parallel Processing (TCPP)
Technical Committee on Real-Time Systems (TCRTS)
Technical Committee on Scalable Computing (TCSC)
Technical Committee on Security and Privacy (TCSP)
Technical Committee on Semantic Computing (TCSEM)
Technical Committee on Services Computing (TCSVC)
Technical Committee on Simulation (TCSIM)
Technical Committee on Visualization and Graphics (VGTC)
Technical Committee on VLSI[25]
Technical Council on Software Engineering (TCSE)
Technical Council on Test Technology (TTTC)

Awards[edit]
The IEEE Computer Society recognizes outstanding work by computer professionals who advance the field in three areas of achievement: Technical Awards (e.g., the Seymour Cray Computer Engineering Award or the IEEE Computer Pioneer Award), Education Awards (e.g., Taylor L. Booth Education Award), and Service Awards (e.g., Richard E. Merwin Distinguished Service Award).[26]
See also[edit]

Association for Computing Machinery
Association of Information Technology Professionals
Australian Computer Society
British Computer Society
Canadian Information Processing Society
Computer Society of India
IEEE Technical Activities Board
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Institution of Analysts and Programmers
ISCA Influential Paper Award
New Zealand Computer Society

References[edit]



^ a b Wood, Helen: "Computer Society Celebrates 50 Years," IEEE Annals of the History of Computing, 17(4):6, 1996
^ IEEE Computer Society Constitution & Bylaws, art. 1, Sec. 2, 1971
^ a b "About the IEEE Computer Society". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 30 August 2011. 
^ Weiss, Eric A., "Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers--Computer Society (IEEE-CS)," Encyclopedia of Computer Science, 4th ed., John Wiley & Sons, 2003, p. 881882
^ "Professional Chapters". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ Concordia, Charles: "In the Beginning There Was the AIEE Committee on Computing Devices," Computer, 9(12):4244 December 1976
^ Astrahan, Morton M., "In the Beginning There Was the IRE Professional Group on Electronic Computers," Computer, 9(12):4344, December 1976
^ Weiss, Eric A., "Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers--Computer Society (IEEE-CS)," Encyclopedia of Computer Science, 4th ed., John Wiley & Sons, 2003, p. 881
^ "IEEE Computer Society Offices". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 30 August 2011. 
^ IEEE Computer Society Bylaws, Article VIXII, 2011
^ "Computing Curriculum: Computer Science 2013 (CS2013)". ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ "Professional and Educational Activities Board". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ "e-Learning Campus". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ Weiss, Eric A., "Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers--Computer Society (IEEE-CS)," Encyclopedia of Computer Science, 4th ed., Nature Publishing Group, 2000, p. 882883
^ "IEEE Computer Society Publications". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 30 August 2011. 
^ "Digital Library". IEEE Computer Society. 
^ "One Online Source for 14 Technical Magazines" (Press release). IEEE Computer Society. 5 May 2008. Retrieved 30 August 2011. 
^ "IEEE Computer Society Introduces Computing Edge". 1888pressrelease.com. Retrieved 4 April 2015. 
^ "Conference Calendar". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ "Technical Activities". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 30 August 2011. 
^ "Standards Activities Board". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ Dejan S. Milojicic, Phil Laplante, "Special Technical Communities," IEEE Computer, vol. 44, no. 6, pp. 84-88, June, 2011.
^ IEEE CS STC Web site
^ Technical Committees of IEEE-CS
^ TCVLSI
^ "IEEE Computer Society Awards". IEEE Computer Society. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 



External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers



Subsidiaries



GlobalSpec
IEEE Standards Association





Predecessors



American Institute of Electrical Engineers
Institute of Radio Engineers





Technical councils



Biometrics Council
Council on Electronic Design Automation
Council on Superconductivity
Nanotechnology Council
Sensors Council
Systems Council
Committee on Earth Observation
Technical Activities Board





Technical Societies



Aerospace and Electronic Systems
Antennas and Propagation
Broadcast Technology
Circuits and Systems
Communications
Components Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology
Computational Intelligence
Computer
Consumer Electronics
Control Systems
Dielectrics and Electrical Insulation
Education
Electromagnetic Compatibility
Electron Devices
Engineering in Medicine and Biology
Geoscience and Remote Sensing
Industrial Electronics
Industry Applications
Information Theory
Instrumentation and Measurement
Intelligent Transportation Systems
Magnetics
Microwave Theory and Techniques
Nuclear and Plasma Sciences
Oceanic Engineering
Photonics
Power and Energy
Power Electronics
Product Safety Engineering
Professional Communication
Reliability
Robotics and Automation
Signal Processing
Social Implications of Technology
Solid-State Circuits
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics
Technology Management
Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control
Vehicular Technology





Related



Certified Software Development Professional
Computer-Aided Design Technical Committee
District University IEEE Student Branch
Engineering and Technology History Wiki
Engineering for Change
Eta Kappa Nu
ICDSC
IEEE Access
IEEE Cloud Computing
IEEE conferences
IEEEXtreme
IEEE GRS South Italy Chapter
IEEEmadC
IEEE Rebooting Computing
IEEE Xplore
International Society for Quality Electronic Design
Internet Technical Committee
Italian Chapter of the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society
IEEE Life Sciences
List of IEEE awards
List of IEEE milestones
List of IEEE publications
NGSN
IEEE Registration Authority
IEEE Smart Grid
IEEE style
Technical Committee on VLSI









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 145122972
LCCN: n79043202
ISNI: 0000 0001 2177 0782
GND: 25694-8
SUDOC: 029994187
BNF: cb121501912 (data)
NLA: 35218046
NDL: 01006155
NKC: stk2009457982










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=IEEE_Computer_Society&oldid=806892957"					
Categories: IEEE societiesComputer science organizationsHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntaxWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschFranaisItalianoMagyarPortugus 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 24 October 2017, at 20:08.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 






