




Living with Michael Jackson - Wikipedia























 






Living with Michael Jackson

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Living with Michael Jackson





Genre
Documentary


Directed by
Julie Shaw


Presented by
Martin Bashir


Starring
Michael Jackson


Country of origin
United Kingdom


Production


Executive producer(s)
Jeff Anderson (Tonight)


Producer(s)
Julie Shaw


Production company(s)
Granada Television


Release


Original network
ITV (U.K.)
ABC (U.S.)


Original release
February 3, 2003 (U.K.)
February 6, 2003 (U.S.)


Living with Michael Jackson is a television documentary, in which Martin Bashir interviewed Michael Jackson over a span of 8 months, from May 2002 to January 2003, about different aspects of his life. It was shown first in the United Kingdom on ITV (as a Tonight special) on February 3, 2003, and in the United States 3 days later on ABC, introduced by Barbara Walters.[1]



Contents


1 Summary
2 Reception

2.1 Criticism
2.2 Rebuttal video
2.3 Ratings


3 References
4 External links



Summary[edit]
Living with Michael Jackson begins at Neverland Ranch, where Michael Jackson and Martin Bashir tour the estate's grounds and face off in a race car match. Later, he explains that he writes the songs by composing lyrics and not the music, because the music "will write itself." Upon being requested by Bashir, he demonstrates that through dancing, he becomes the physical embodiment of the music. Afterwards Jackson admits that the house's theme of Peter Pan is so inspirational, because he feels he is Pan. They go out to the Giving Tree, a tree in which Jackson gets inspiration to write his songs. While watching footage of the Jackson 5, he gets emotional upon recalling how his father Joe would watch his sons rehearse the dance steps with a belt in his hand. He states that he felt a deep fear of his father, and that is why he never laid a hand on his children. Bashir notes that this must have left a deep impact on the young Michael.
After Neverland, Bashir followed him to the Four Seasons Hotel in Las Vegas. In Las Vegas, Jackson spoke about his love life, his changing appearance, and his children. When Bashir inquires if he had any girlfriends when he was young, Jackson recounts a time when one-time girlfriend Tatum O'Neal wanted to make love to him, but he backed down because he was not ready. Bashir and Jackson also visited a shopping center where Jackson reportedly spent over a million dollars in one store on furniture for a new house. The subject of his changing appearance is brought up, but an agitated Jackson denies deliberately bleaching his skin, getting implants in his cheeks, having a cleft put in his chin, having his lips enlarged, or getting his eyelids reconstructed, claiming that the media is ignorant of what they do not understand. Jackson mentions he suffered horrible bouts of acne as a teenager, and his father would repeatedly insult him by making fun of his nose. Afterward, Bashir gets to meet the Jackson children Prince and Paris, who wore masks to conceal their appearance. Jackson then went to Berlin, Germany. This is where the "baby dangling" incident occurred. Jackson also visited Berlin Zoo and a charity auction, and received a humanitarian award at the Bambi Awards.
Back in Neverland, Jackson reveals to Bashir that not only does he invite disadvantaged children to his ranch, he lets them stay in his bed while he sleeps on the floor. Gavin Arvizo is also interviewed and states that it was Jackson's support that helped him beat his bout with cancer. Jackson admits that sometimes when Gavin stayed with him, Jackson let him have the bed while he slept on the floor. When asked what he gets out of his involvement with children, the singer replies that he gains joy, because "my greatest inspiration comes from kids". After this, Bashir says he feels uneasy about what he views as an apparent obsession with children. He says that he will have to confront Jackson on certain areas of his life about which he feels he had been less than honest.
During January 2003, Bashir meets with Jackson in Miami for the final interview and brings up the subject of his face. A visibly upset Jackson says that he has only had two operations on his nose[1] in order to facilitate his singing, to which Bashir tries to ask how he looks so much different from when he was an adolescent. After the singer states that there is nothing wrong with plastic surgery, and that it was "not invented for Michael Jackson," Bashir comes to the conclusion that Jackson wanted to change his appearance as a result of his troubled youth and father's insults. When he asks about a comment Jackson's son Prince made that "I haven't got a mother," Jackson tells him that Deborah Rowe bore his two children as a gift for him, because he wanted to be a father so badly. On the subject of Blanket's mother, Jackson contradicts his earlier statement that he had Blanket with a woman with whom he had a relationship by stating that Blanket's mother was a surrogate mother and that they did not know each other. Bashir also repeatedly questions Jackson why he invites children into his room. Jackson defended himself stating that such activity is natural when the children are of close friends or family, and that "many children," including the Culkin family children (Macaulay and Kieran) have slept in the same bed as him. Jackson strongly denied that there was any sexual motivation for this. During these defensive comments he also stated that he would allow his children to stay with his friends including Barry Gibb, saying that they are "sweet people" and are not "Jack the Ripper".[2] Due to the confidentiality agreement, he refuses to talk about the 1993 allegations, but he reveals that he paid the accuser a settlement, since he "didn't want to go through a long, drawn-out affair, like O.J."
Reception[edit]
Criticism[edit]
Michael Jackson felt betrayed by Martin Bashir and complained that the film gives a distorted picture of his behavior and conduct as a father.[3][4] He said that in the final version of his interview, Bashir used only that material which supported the negative view Bashir portrayed as holding towards Jackson. In response, Jackson and his personal cameraman released a rebuttal interview, which showed Bashir complimenting Jackson on his abilities as a father and grace under pressure.[5]
Bashir stated: I don't believe that I've betrayed Michael Jackson at all. I agreed that we would make an honest film about his life. The film was fair to his musical achievement and gave him every opportunity to explain himself. I'm not accusing anybody of being a child molester or a paedophile.[6] Following Jackson's death in 2009, Bashir said that Jackson "was never convicted of any crime, and I never saw any wrongdoing myself."[7]
Rebuttal video[edit]
In an attempt to repair his image following the Martin Bashir interview, Michael Jackson released a second interview, called Take Two: The Footage You Were Never Meant to See (also referred to as "the rebuttal video"), which was seen on Fox in the United States[8][9]. This was presented by Maury Povich and contains material which Bashir omitted. It also features new interviews with people close to Jackson, such as his former wife Debbie Rowe, parents Joseph and Katherine, brother Jermaine and close friend Elizabeth Taylor. In this interview, she claimed it was on her request that the children wore masks in public. She also pointed out that the concept of "sharing a bed" can be misunderstood: for example, she herself likes watching television in bed; when she has a visitor, they both watch television together in bed. It also contains interviews with Bashir giving much different opinions than he gave in past interviews as well as in the voice-overs. He is shown praising Jackson as a father as well as saying that he thinks it is wonderful that he allows children to come to Neverland, though he had made previous statements that Neverland Ranch was a "dangerous place" for children.[5]
The footage that they show in this documentary was filmed by Hamid Moslehi privately. He states that he was not "secretly" videotaping the interviews, as was popularly believed. He said Bashir knew they were also filming, but that Bashir probably did not know that when he told his camera crew to cut, that he was still filming.
Part of the footage was not aired because videographer Hamid Moslehi refused to hand it over, owing to a financial dispute with Jackson.[10][11] It was found by police in a search of Moslehi's home in November 2003, and showed the accuser's family praising Jackson.[11]
Bashir said a 16-second clip was being used to portray him as being unfair when he had interviewed Jackson for more than 10 hours.[12]
Ratings[edit]
The U.K. airing had 15 million viewers while 38 million watched the 2-hour special on ABC.[5]
References[edit]


^ a b Stanley, Alessandra (2003-02-06). "TELEVISION REVIEW; A Neverland World Of Michael Jackson". The New York Times. Retrieved 2009-06-28. 
^ ""Living with Michael Jackson"  Excerpts from the programme transcript (from ITV.com)". Michael Jackson's House. Retrieved 2007-10-07. 
^ "Michael Jackson's statement". CNN. 2003-02-06. Retrieved 2010-05-11. 
^ "Jackson complains to TV watchdog". BBC News. 2003-02-06. Retrieved 2010-05-11. 
^ a b c Low, Valentine (2009-06-27). "Michael Jackson: PR suicide with the help of Martin Bashir". The Times. London. Retrieved 2009-06-28. 
^ http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-160610/Bashir-defends-Jacko-interview.html
^ "Bashir: Jacko was the greatest". The Sun. London. 2009-06-27. 
^ The Michael Jackson Interview: The Footage You Were Never Meant to See (2003) on IMDb
^ Johnson Jr, Billy (2003-02-21). "Michael Jackson Interviewer Contradicts Himself In Behind The Scenes Footage". LAUNCH. Archived from the original on 19 June 2003. 
^ Time Waster (2004-12-20). ""Hero" Videographer Sues Jackson". The Smoking Gun. Retrieved 2012-03-23. 
^ a b "Inside The Michael Jackson Grand Jury". The Smoking Gun. 15 February 2005. 
^ http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/2756285.stm


External links[edit]

Living with Michael Jackson on IMDb



Preceded by
Tonight with Trevor McDonald
RTS: Television Journalism
Programme of the Year
2004
Succeeded by
Home: Panorama  A Fight to the Death
International: This World  Access to Evil








v
t
e


Michael Jackson






Albums
Singles
Songs
Videography
Unreleased songs
Awards
Records and achievements





Studio albums



Got to Be There
Ben
Music & Me
Forever, Michael
Off the Wall
Thriller
Bad
Dangerous
HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I
Invincible





Posthumous albums



Michael
Xscape





Soundtracks



The Wiz
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial
Michael Jackson's This Is It
Immortal





Remix albums



The Original Soul of Michael Jackson
Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix
The Stripped Mixes
The Remix Suite





Compilations



The Best of Michael Jackson
One Day in Your Life
The Michael Jackson Mix
20th Century Masters  The Millennium Collection: The Best of Michael Jackson
Greatest Hits: HIStory, Volume I
Number Ones
The Essential Michael Jackson
King of Pop
The Definitive Collection
Icon
Scream





Box sets



Anthology
The Ultimate Collection
Visionary: The Video Singles
Thriller 25: Limited Japanese Single Collection
50 Best Songs  The Motown Years: Michael Jackson & The Jackson 5
The Collection
Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection
The Indispensable Collection
The Ultimate Fan Extras Collection





Other albums



Farewell My Summer Love
Looking Back to Yesterday
Thriller 25
Bad 25





Concert tours



Bad
Dangerous World Tour
HIStory World Tour
This Is It





Filmography



Michael Jackson's Thriller
Captain EO
Moonwalker
Michael Jackson's Ghosts
Miss Cast Away and the Island Girls
Michael Jackson's This Is It
Michael Jackson: The Life of an Icon
Bad 25
Michael Jackson: The Last Photo Shoot
Michael Jackson's Journey from Motown to Off the Wall





Video albums



Dangerous: The Short Films
Video Greatest Hits  HIStory
HIStory on Film, Volume II
Number Ones
The One
Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour
Michael Jackson's Vision
Live at Wembley July 16, 1988





Television



Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story
Move Like Michael Jackson
"Stark Raving Dad" (The Simpsons episode)





Video games



Michael Jackson's Moonwalker
Sonic the Hedgehog 3
Space Channel 5
Ready 2 Rumble Boxing: Round 2
Space Channel 5: Part 2
Michael Jackson: The Experience
Planet Michael





Bibliography



Moonwalk
Dancing the Dream





Specials



Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever
MJ & Friends
Michael Jackson: 30th Anniversary Celebration
United We Stand: What More Can I Give
Live at the Apollo
Michael Forever  The Tribute Concert





Assets



Neverland Ranch
Northern Songs
Sony/ATV Music Publishing (formerly)





Influence on society



Heal the World Foundation
Thrill the World
Thriller viral video
Thriller  Live
Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour
Michael Jackson: One





Related



The Jackson 5
Moonwalk
Health and appearance
Personal relationships
1993 child sexual abuse accusations
Living with Michael Jackson
People v. Jackson
Death
Trial of personal physician
Memorial service
Cover versions
Thriller jacket
HIStory statue
Michael Jackson-related games
Quincy Jones
Kenny Ortega
Slash
Mesoparapylocheles
Bubbles
Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award
We Are the World
Mind Is the Magic: Anthem for the Las Vegas Show
Never Can Say Goodbye: The Music of Michael Jackson
Queen Forever
Michael Forever  The Tribute Concert





Relatives



Katherine Esther Scruse (mother)
Joseph Walter Jackson (father)
Maureen Reillette Brown (elder sister)
Sigmund Esco Jackson (elder brother)
Toriano Adaryll Jackson (elder brother)
Jermaine La Juane Jackson (elder brother)
La Toya Yvonne Jackson (elder sister)
Marlon David Jackson (elder brother)
Steven Randall Jackson (younger brother)
Janet Damita Jo Jackson (younger sister)
Nathaniel Austin Brown (nephew)
Tito Joe Jackson (nephew)
Lisa Marie Presley (ex-wife)
Deborah Jeanne Rowe (ex-wife)
Paris-Michael Katherine Jackson (daughter)








 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


People v. Jackson



Key figures



Michael Jackson





Judge



Rodney Melville





Prosecution figures



Thomas W. Sneddon Jr.





Witnesses for the prosecution



Debbie Rowe
June Chandler





Defense figures



Benjamin Brafman
Mark Geragos
Thomas Mesereau





Witnesses for the defense



Chris Tucker
George Lopez
Macaulay Culkin
Wade Robson
Jay Leno





Other elements



1993 child sexual abuse accusations against Michael Jackson
Living with Michael Jackson










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Living_with_Michael_Jackson&oldid=808217447"					
Categories: 2003 television specialsAmerican Broadcasting Company television specialsAmerican documentary television filmsITV television programmesMichael JacksonHidden categories: Use dmy dates from August 2014Use British English from August 2014 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


EspaolGalegoItalianoNederlandsNorskPortugusSimple EnglishSuomiSvenskaTrke 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 1 November 2017, at 16:01.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 






